feat(post): publish translation of a post (#275)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2021-09-06-web-best-practices.md

It is therefore preferable to add rules that have a script that will _autofix_ the whole codebase intelligently.
Many Eslint rules offer this, and it is a very important selection criteria when choosing new conventions.

```shell
eslint --fix
```

A very strict rule that will force you to modify your code manually before each push is annoying in the long run and will annoy your teams.
Whereas a rule (even a very strict one) that can auto-fix itself at commit time will not be seen as annoying.

**How to decide to add new rules ?**

This question may seem thorny, take for example the case of `<tab>` / `<space>` in files.
For this, we try to avoid the endless debates and follow the trend and rules of the community.
For example, [our Eslint configuration base](https://github.com/M6Web/eslint-tools) is based on Airbnb's which seems to have some success in the JS community.
But if the rule we want to impose on ourselves is not available in Eslint or other tools, we sometimes prefer not to follow the rule rather than say "We'll do it without a checking CI".

### The _almost_ exhaustive list 🤞

![Our continuous integration workflow](/images/posts/bonnes-pratiques-web/ci-workflow.png)

> - The file format is tracked managed by [Editorconfig](https://editorconfig.org/), [prettier](https://prettier.io/) and [Eslint](https://eslint.org/).

Author: ```suggestion
- The file format is managed by [Editorconfig](https://editorconfig.org/), [prettier](https://prettier.io/) and [Eslint](https://eslint.org/).
```

}
```

In our code, we have implemented conditional treatments that say "If this feature is activated then...".
This can change the rendering of a component, change the implementation of a Redux action or disable a route in our _react-router_.

**But what's the point?**

- We can develop new evolutions progressively by hiding them behind a configuration key.
  We deliver features in production without activating them.
- In a test environment, we can overload this config to test features that are not yet activated in production.
- In the case of a white label site, we can propose these features to our customers as possible options.
- Before deleting code of a feature, we deactivate it and clean it up without risk.
- Thanks to an in-house tool called _Applaunch_, this feature flipping config can be overloaded on time in a GUI without deployment.
  This allows us to activate features without putting the code into production.
  In the event of an incident, we can deactivate features that have been degraded.

To give you a more concrete example, between 2018 and 2020 we completely overhauled the application's interface.
This graphical evolution was just a featureFlipping key.

> The graphical redesign was not a reset of the project, we still live with both versions (as long as the switchover of all our customers is not completed).

Reviewer: 😱 💪

![screenshot comparing v4 / v5 on 6play](/images/posts/bonnes-pratiques-web/compare-v4-v5.jpg)

### A/B testing

Thanks to the great work of the backend and data teams, we were even able to extend the use of _feature flipping_ by making this configuration modifiable for sub-groups of users.

This allows us to deploy new features on a smaller portion of users in order to compare our [KPI].

Decision making, technical or product performance improvement, experimentation, the possibilities are numerous and we exploit them more and more.

### The _future flipping_.

> Based on an original idea by [Florent Lepretre](https://twitter.com/SuperFlaw).

We regularly had the need to activate features at ~~very~~ early hours in the future.
For that we had to be connected at a precise time on our computer to modify the configuration on the fly.

To avoid forgetting to do this, or doing it late, we made sure that a configuration key could be activated from a certain date.

> To do this, we evolved our _selector redux_ which indicated if a feature was activated so that it could handle date formats and compare them to the current time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, we evolved our _Redux selector_ which indicated if a feature was activated so that it could handle date formats and compare them to the current time.
```

?

```js
const featureFlipping = {
  myAwesomeFeature: {
    offDate: '2021-07-12 20:30:00',
    onDate: '2021-07-12 19:30:00',
  },
}
```

> Many coffees ☕️ at 9am have been saved by _future flipping_.

## Monitor, Measure, Alert

> To maintain a project as long as bedrock's web application, testing, documentation and rigor are not enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain a project as long as Bedrock's web application, testing, documentation and rigor are not enough.
```

You also need visibility on what works in production.

> "How do you know that the application you have in production right now is working as expected?"

We assume that no functionality works until it is monitored.
Today, monitoring in Bedrock on the frontend side takes the form of different tools and different stacks.

> I could quote [NewRelic](https://newrelic.com/), a [Statsd](https://github.com/statsd/statsd), a [ELK](https://www.elastic.co/fr/what-is/elk-stack) stack or even [Youbora](https://youbora.nicepeopleatwork.com/) for the video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We rely on [NewRelic](https://newrelic.com), [Statsd](https://github.com/statsd/statsd), a [ELK](https://www.elastic.co/fr/what-is/elk-stack) stack and even [Youbora](https://youbora.nicepeopleatwork.com) for the video streaming part.
```

Monitoring also offers us solutions to understand and analyze a bug that occurred in the past.
Understanding an incident, explaining it, finding its root cause are the possibilities that are open to you if you monitor your application.
Monitoring can also allow you to better communicate with your customers about the impact of an incident and also to estimate the number of impacted users.

With the multiplication of our customers, monitoring our platforms well is not enough.
Too much data, too many dashboards to monitor, it becomes very easy to miss something.
So we started to complement our metrics monitoring with automatic _alerting_.
Once we have enough confidence in the metrics, we can easily set up alerts that will warn us if there is an inconsistent value.

However, we try to always trigger alerts only when it is actionable.
In other words, if an alert sounds, we have something to do.
Sounding alerts that do not require immediate human action generates noise and wastes time.

![general alert](/images/posts/bonnes-pratiques-web/alerte-taxi.gif)

## Limit, monitor and update your dependencies

> What goes out of date faster than your shadow in a web project based on javascript technologies are your dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What goes out of date faster than your shadow in a web project based on Javascript technologies are your dependencies.
```

Je vous ai déjà parlé de [Renovate](https://docs.renovatebot.com/) ? :trollface:
